Passing the PE Civil Construction and FE Other Disciplines in 9 months

This community has been super helpful in my FE (passed May 2025) & PE (passed December 2025) journey, and I wish to contribute in return. I am providing a long post to cover my strategy for both exams here. I believe that if you wish to appear for both in the same year, you need to prepare accordingly.

My initial plan was to take the PE Architectural Engineering (PE AE), given the nature of my work involving multiple disciplines. With this in mind, I chose to appear for the FE Other Disciplines (FE OD), which had the most syllabus overlap with PE AE. I started my preparation in early April 2025 and appeared for the FE OD at the end of May 2025. I had to take the FE OD by May to save time for PE AE, which is offered once a year in October, and to allow a second chance in June, in the subsequent quarter, if I ended up failing in May.

Upon passing the FE OD, I bought the NCEES Practice Exam for PE AE. I quickly realized that the questions and syllabus were too vast to cover in four months. Furthermore, there was a dearth of resources for PE AE, and the exam was offered only once a year. The risk-benefit ratio was not favorable. Thus, I pivoted to PE Civil Construction (PE CC), which was the next best exam given the nature of my work.

My preparation strategy remained the same for both FE & PE. I have summarized it below as a flow, to the best of my ability.

Start with the Syllabus, and make sure you know it completely. The Syllabus will guide your preparation henceforth.

Get the Handbook, and do one thorough reading while referring to the Syllabus. If a topic is mentioned in the Syllabus, then you definitely need to cover it from the Handbook.

Then get the NCEES Practice Exam and dive right in. This will give you a reality check of your current knowledge and how much more you have to study. The NCEES Practice Exam will not cover all the topics from the Syllabus, but it is still the most reliable source for the kind of questions you will face in the actual exam.

Next, ensure your basic fundamentals are clear. Get books that help in this regard. For the FE OD, it was the 'PPI FE Other Disciplines Review Manual', and for PE CC, it was the 'PPI PE Civil Reference Manual' and the 'PPI Construction Depth Reference Manual'.

Upon completing the first reading of these books, move on to solving questions. You need a rich question bank that resembles the exam closely. You also need the ability to solve questions based on custom topics from the syllabus. I utilized 'PrepFE' for the FE OD and 'PPI2Pass' for the PE CC. I also relied on 'The Essential Guide to Passing the Construction Civil PE Exam Written in the Form of Questions' for the PE CC.

Always remember that if you refer to the given solution for a problem you couldn’t solve, your goal must be to ensure that you never get a similar question wrong again. This brings back seriousness when going through the given solutions. It is a wasted effort if you later get a similar question wrong after having gone through a given solution earlier.

For PE CC, the Codes and Standards were crucial. Please make sure you get digital versions of all of them. The questions based on these were low-hanging fruits. Once you know which reference and which chapter the question is referring to, solving them becomes much simpler. However, if you get lost while searching, you will lose a lot of time. Answering these questions can range from under a minute to over five minutes if you get lost while searching. Thus, be very familiar with the Codes and Standards, and know their chapters well. Remember that in the exam, you cannot search the entire reference, but only within chapters.

At this point in your preparation, you are aware of the required level of preparation, what types of questions are easy for you, and which topics are still confusing or ones you feel unprepared for. Start making a list of all of these. This list can follow the Syllabus. You might have to revisit the basic fundamentals for those topics. You will end up revising certain topics a handful of times until you feel confident with them.

This is now a good time to schedule your exam.

Prior to the exam day, the last few days are critical. This is when you will solve the NCEES Practice Exam once more. Although the actual exam is slightly more difficult, the NCEES Practice Exam helps recalibrate the difficulty level of the questions asked. When you end up solving super difficult questions from the question banks, you start feeling that the entire exam will be at that same difficulty level. This leads to overthinking on simpler questions, thus wasting precious minutes. Recalibrating your preparation to the NCEES Practice Exam before the actual exam will make you better prepared.

On the exam day, flag questions for which you don't see a clear path to arriving at the answer. Your goal is to do a first pass through all the questions and get all the low-hanging fruits. On the second pass, focus on flagged questions that pertain to Codes and Standards. The answers for these are quite straightforward, and you should be able to find them in the references. The third pass is for the difficult questions that you have no clue about. These are the questions where you would need to rigorously search through the handbook. Towards the end, don't leave any questions unanswered, and take your best logical guess.

This marks the end of my strategy. These exams are quite tough. Studying with a full-time job makes them all the more difficult.

Best of luck!
